My name is Jeff Wehr, and I'm from Michigan, by way of Arizona, Georgia, and New York, in addition to a few other places here and there. Presently I'm living in San Francisco, California, where I've been more or less for the past 11 years. Technically I'm a lawyer, though I like to think of myself as a 'recovering attorney' shifting away from the legal profession. To that end, I recently started working at a prominent technology company in Silicon Valley, doing work that is as much data mining and statistical analysis as it is legal work.

When I was doing my first go-round in college in New York in the late 90s/early 2000s, I studied a lot of various languages and history - most of which I've forgotten, though I am trying to keep up my Mandarin and Spanish. At various times, I also studied Italian, Hebrew, Russian, and a few other languages, but those have mainly fallen by the wayside.  My initial plan was to finish college and go to law school, so I chose a major where I knew I would perform strongly and thereby have a competitive GPA for law school admissions. As a result, I did not pursue anything in a hard scientific discipline or my interest in computers/programming/computer science – a decision I regretted almost immediately.

While I am certain that I wish to transition from law into a more quantitative discipline, I am still trying to figure out what areas within the broad discipline of computer science interest me. From a philosophical perspective, I am drawn to low-level languages. Having thus far studied human languages like Mandarin, Spanish, Hebrew, etc. as well as the high-level “language” of legal communication, as well as the high-level C++ computer language, assembly language and machine code interest me by conveying the idea that communications all lie on a spectrum, and we are constantly translating from one language to another even across species and from human to machine. I am still learning the day-to-day mundane elements of assembly language, but I am excited to see what low-level/assembly/machine languages will add to my understanding of the fundamental aspects of communication, and what constitutes concepts like “thought,” “ideas,” and even culture.

As to what's brought me here, I've been technology-obsessed most of my life, but it always took a back seat to my career aspirations in other. Aside from the work I’ve done through OSU, I have a rudimentary understanding of programming from tinkering with languages like BASIC when I was a kid, but otherwise haven’t had much exposure to computer science beyond keeping abreast of tech developments and hacking into my android handsets and tablets. I really marvel at, and appreciate, how OSU has structured this program in such a way as to allow completion of a second bachelor's in a completely unrelated discipline within one year, but also permit a longer time period should it prove necessary. The fact that it allows such flexibility proved a godsend to me in terms of goal-setting, and I applied a day after discovering this program. I also personally wanted to learn a quantitative discipline again. Discrete Structures in my first term was my first math class since 1997, and it was a personal vindication to prove to myself that I did not forget/could easily learn and re-learn mathematical concepts, however basic.

programming background